README.md, before:

![alt text](https://github.com/CHC-Computations/Harmonize/blob/main/logo-1.png?raw=true)
# Dictionaries of literary terms and entities (Słowniki terminów i bytów literackich)

The collection consists of lists of literary data entities. The data is divided into two main parts - a dictionary of literary terms and a dictionary of literary entities. The latter is further divided into further subsets - authors, translators, researchers, fictional characters, actual characters, actual places, fictional places, events, institutions, literary groups, periodicals, and works.

Additional part are controlled vocabularies and ontologies of the European Literary Bibliography service.

## Contributors

**Institute of Literary Research of the Polish Academy of Sciences**, [www.ibl.waw.pl](https://ibl.waw.pl/)

## Literary terms and entities collection

Entries were extracted automatically from digitized versions of dictionaries containing literary terminology and information about people associated with literature. Another important data source was the reference directories and a subset of the National Library containing literary bibliographic records. Additional data sources were the Polish Literary Bibliography and Wikipedia.

### Statistics

The collection contains 161 852 entities.

<p align="center">
  <img src="/pictures/Dictionaries of literary terms and entities - percentage distribution.png" alt="Dictionaries of literary terms and entities – percentage distribution" width="65%">
</p>

### Dictionary of Literary Terms

The set of literary terms consists of 7 260 concepts. The collection with its scope covers terminology as broadly as possible representing the scientific discourse of literary studies.

#### Resources

```
Epoki literackie. Wielki leksykon literatury polskiej
Ilustrowany słownik terminów literackich
Leksykon szkolny. Gatunki paraliterackie, publicystyczne i użytkowe
Mały słownik terminów teorii tekstu
Od aforyzmu do zinu. Gatunki twórczości słownej
Od teorii do literatury. Słownik literacki
Polsko-czesko-rosyjsko-ukraiński słownik pojęć literackich
Słownik egzemplaryczny: 44 środków artystycznego wyrazu
Słownik gatunków literackich (Marek Bernacki, Marta Pawlus)
Słownik kultury postmodernistycznej. Mody, kulty, fascynacje
Słownik literatury polskiej
Słownik literatury staropolskiej
Słownik nowych gatunków i zjawisk literackich
Słownik pojęć i tekstów kultury
Słownik pojęć. Historia literatury, teoria literatury, historia sztuki, filozofia
Słownik polskiej krytyki literackiej 1764-1918
Słownik rodzajów i gatunków literackich (Grzegorz Gazda)
Słownik terminów literackich (Głowiński)
Słownik terminów literackich (Sierotwiński)
Słownik terminów teatralnych (Patrice Pavis)
Słownik wiedzy o teatrze
Szkolny słownik wiedzy o literaturze. Pojęcia - problemy - koncepcje
Tekstylia bis. Słownik młodej polskiej kultury
Teorie literatury XX wieku (Anna Burzyńska, Michał Paweł Markowski)
```
#### Access

The dictionary of literary terms is made available in a folder [here](https://github.com/CHC-Computations/Slowniki-terminow-i-bytow-literackich/tree/main/Dictionary%20of%20literary%20terms). Data is available in CSV and XLSX formats.

### Dictionaries of Literary Entities

The set of literary entities consists of 154 592 entities. The collection contains entities related to the space of scientific literary discourse. The collection is divided into individual vocabularies corresponding to the types of entities that were subject to extraction. These include personal and geographical names (both real and fictional), names of institutions, names of literary groups, names of events, names of periodicals, and titles of works.

#### Resources
```
100 bohaterów lektur
1600 postaci literackich
Biblioteka Narodowa – kartoteka autorytatywna
Biblioteka Narodowa – rekordy literackie
Bohaterowie naszych książek. Leksykon
Epoki literackie. Wielki leksykon literatury polskiej
Grupy literackie w Polsce. Leksykon
Leksykon literatury dla dzieci i młodzieży
Polska Bibliografia Literacka – kartoteka cykli wydarzeń
Polska Bibliografia Literacka – kartoteka czasopism
Polska Bibliografia Literacka – kartoteka utworów
Słownik bohaterów literackich
Słownik miejsc wyobrażonych
Słownik polskiej krytyki literackiej 1764-1918
Słownik postaci literackich (Makowiecki)
Słownik postaci mitycznych w literaturze i sztuce
Szkolny słownik bohaterów literackich
Wikipedia – Festiwale literackie
Wikipedia – Polskie nagrody literackie
Wikipedia – Polskojęzyczne konkursy poetyckie
```
#### Statistics

<p align="center">
  <img src="/pictures/Dictionaries of literary entities - percentage distribution.png" alt="Dictionaries of literary entities – percentage distribution" width="65%">
</p>

#### Access

The individual dictionaries of literary entities are made available in folders [here](https://github.com/CHC-Computations/Slowniki-terminow-i-bytow-literackich/tree/main/Dictionary%20of%20literary%20entities). Data is available in CSV and XLSX formats.

## European Literary Bibliography collection



## Licence

All data in this collection are in the public domain. No rights reserved, texts are available under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Licence [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

![alt_text](https://github.com/CHC-Computations/Harmonize/blob/main/Zrzut%20ekranu%202022-12-19%20o%2017.48.49.png?raw=true)

Commit message:

Update README with info on ELB dictionaries

README.md, after:

![alt text](https://github.com/CHC-Computations/Harmonize/blob/main/logo-1.png?raw=true)
# Dictionaries of literary terms and entities (Słowniki terminów i bytów literackich)

The collection consists of lists of literary data entities. The data is divided into two main parts - a dictionary of literary terms and a dictionary of literary entities. The latter is further divided into further subsets - authors, translators, researchers, fictional characters, actual characters, actual places, fictional places, events, institutions, literary groups, periodicals, and works.

Additional part are controlled vocabularies and ontologies of the European Literary Bibliography service.

## Contributors

**Institute of Literary Research of the Polish Academy of Sciences**, [www.ibl.waw.pl](https://ibl.waw.pl/)

## Literary terms and entities collection

Entries were extracted automatically from digitized versions of dictionaries containing literary terminology and information about people associated with literature. Another important data source was the reference directories and a subset of the National Library containing literary bibliographic records. Additional data sources were the Polish Literary Bibliography and Wikipedia.

### Statistics

The collection contains 161 852 entities.

<p align="center">
  <img src="/pictures/Dictionaries of literary terms and entities - percentage distribution.png" alt="Dictionaries of literary terms and entities – percentage distribution" width="65%">
</p>

### Dictionary of Literary Terms

The set of literary terms consists of 7 260 concepts. The collection with its scope covers terminology as broadly as possible representing the scientific discourse of literary studies.

#### Resources

```
Epoki literackie. Wielki leksykon literatury polskiej
Ilustrowany słownik terminów literackich
Leksykon szkolny. Gatunki paraliterackie, publicystyczne i użytkowe
Mały słownik terminów teorii tekstu
Od aforyzmu do zinu. Gatunki twórczości słownej
Od teorii do literatury. Słownik literacki
Polsko-czesko-rosyjsko-ukraiński słownik pojęć literackich
Słownik egzemplaryczny: 44 środków artystycznego wyrazu
Słownik gatunków literackich (Marek Bernacki, Marta Pawlus)
Słownik kultury postmodernistycznej. Mody, kulty, fascynacje
Słownik literatury polskiej
Słownik literatury staropolskiej
Słownik nowych gatunków i zjawisk literackich
Słownik pojęć i tekstów kultury
Słownik pojęć. Historia literatury, teoria literatury, historia sztuki, filozofia
Słownik polskiej krytyki literackiej 1764-1918
Słownik rodzajów i gatunków literackich (Grzegorz Gazda)
Słownik terminów literackich (Głowiński)
Słownik terminów literackich (Sierotwiński)
Słownik terminów teatralnych (Patrice Pavis)
Słownik wiedzy o teatrze
Szkolny słownik wiedzy o literaturze. Pojęcia - problemy - koncepcje
Tekstylia bis. Słownik młodej polskiej kultury
Teorie literatury XX wieku (Anna Burzyńska, Michał Paweł Markowski)
```
#### Access

The dictionary of literary terms is made available in a folder [here](https://github.com/CHC-Computations/Slowniki-terminow-i-bytow-literackich/tree/main/Dictionary%20of%20literary%20terms). Data is available in CSV and XLSX formats.

### Dictionaries of Literary Entities

The set of literary entities consists of 154 592 entities. The collection contains entities related to the space of scientific literary discourse. The collection is divided into individual vocabularies corresponding to the types of entities that were subject to extraction. These include personal and geographical names (both real and fictional), names of institutions, names of literary groups, names of events, names of periodicals, and titles of works.

#### Resources
```
100 bohaterów lektur
1600 postaci literackich
Biblioteka Narodowa – kartoteka autorytatywna
Biblioteka Narodowa – rekordy literackie
Bohaterowie naszych książek. Leksykon
Epoki literackie. Wielki leksykon literatury polskiej
Grupy literackie w Polsce. Leksykon
Leksykon literatury dla dzieci i młodzieży
Polska Bibliografia Literacka – kartoteka cykli wydarzeń
Polska Bibliografia Literacka – kartoteka czasopism
Polska Bibliografia Literacka – kartoteka utworów
Słownik bohaterów literackich
Słownik miejsc wyobrażonych
Słownik polskiej krytyki literackiej 1764-1918
Słownik postaci literackich (Makowiecki)
Słownik postaci mitycznych w literaturze i sztuce
Szkolny słownik bohaterów literackich
Wikipedia – Festiwale literackie
Wikipedia – Polskie nagrody literackie
Wikipedia – Polskojęzyczne konkursy poetyckie
```
#### Statistics

<p align="center">
  <img src="/pictures/Dictionaries of literary entities - percentage distribution.png" alt="Dictionaries of literary entities – percentage distribution" width="65%">
</p>

#### Access

The individual dictionaries of literary entities are made available in folders [here](https://github.com/CHC-Computations/Slowniki-terminow-i-bytow-literackich/tree/main/Dictionary%20of%20literary%20entities). Data is available in CSV and XLSX formats.

## European Literary Bibliography collection

The controlled vocabularies of the [European Literary Bibliography](https://literarybibliography.eu/) service is a collection containing multilingual data on genres and subjects found in the service's bibliographic resources. The data is presented in the Simple Knowledge Organization System (SKOS) schema and includes links to data from the National Library of Poland, National Library of the Czech Republic, General Finnish ontology (YSO), National Library of Spain and Wikidata.
The collection contains 979 entities. 

#### Access

The European Literary Bibliography dictionaries are available [here](https://github.com/CHC-Computations/Slowniki-terminow-i-bytow-literackich/tree/main/ELB%20dictionaries) in CSV and TTL formats.

## Licence

All data in this collection are in the public domain. No rights reserved, texts are available under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Licence [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

![alt_text](https://github.com/CHC-Computations/Harmonize/blob/main/Zrzut%20ekranu%202022-12-19%20o%2017.48.49.png?raw=true)
